Discuss MFA, biometrics, and password policies
MFA is Multi-factor Authentication and is a critical yet simple part of any organization's security infrastructure. MFA is an important part of identity proofing. Identity proofing has 7 segments to it: somewhere you are, something you are, something you have, someone you know, something you exhibit, something you can do, something you know. MFA can use any and all of these but primarily it's what you have(your phone with an MFA application logged to you) and something you know(which could be your password or personal information that only you know). 

Biometrics is another form of authentication and heavily based off of the “something you are” portion of authentication. These are parts of you that are unique to you, such as your fingerprint or your iris. Biometrics are not without their own faults of course. These both require specialized equipment to scan and use as authentication, which are expensive pieces of equipment. In addition to this, biometric authentication as it’s coined in the book, can give false positives and false negatives, allowing incorrect people to access accounts or block out the correct people. With these downsides in mind, it is still a strong barrier of security and should be used in conjunction with a strong password and a MFA application to ensure access by only the people who should be on there.

Password policies are a pivotal part of any organization's complete security plan since losing passwords through an attack can bypass all other security methods to some degree. As most servers don’t store the actual password of the client, but the password digest, it is important to introduce new variables in the digest construction and encryption to make it much more time consuming for attacks to find the hash collisions of the passwords they would like. Some important practices to learn about are Salting, Peppering, and Key Stretching.
Salting is where random strings are used in the hash algorithm. These disrupt dictionary and brute force attacks. This also helps make the password more secure in the event that two individuals choose the same password, since different strings will be added to each hash. One downside of Salting is that these random strings that are used are stored in a database usually with the password digest so a database compromise can lead to password compromise. 
Peppering is different from salting since it doesn’t change the digest but encrypts the digest with a symmetrical key before storing the digest. An interesting thing about peppering is that it is a static value shared site-wide but stored on a separate database, allowing for compartmentalization of information and making the password digests of the original server more secure. These used in conjunction creates the most secure digests from attack.
Finally the best approach to digest protection is the addition of key stretching. Key stretching is designed to make the attack process take exponentially longer for the attacker so they are not able to brute force or dictionary attack databases. These can used to put a password through a hash 10, 100, or even 1000 times depending on the administers security plan and computer abilities. 
