The book defines least privilege as granting access that is limited to what is only necessary for a device or user to complete their work. This is a way to compartmentalize networks so that any failure in the chain doesn’t result in the threat actor gaining complete control of a network and data stored in it.

These restrictions are placed in many different ways. Some of these restrictions are based on the time that people are trying to access information and they are also based on position once the user has been authenticated. These are all easily accessed in most systems built in frameworks, allowing administrators to have a more fine tuned approach to their network safety. 

As mentioned before, access can be based off of position and what your part is within the system. This is where RBAC comes into play. This allows for an almost need to know level of compartmentalization. Giving people access to systems that only need to access them, along with data and other things these networks and servers can provide. This is considered the more “real world” approach to privileges since you assign clearance based off of position rather than individual.

DAC is Discretionary Access Control and is considered to be the “least restrictive”.  Within these systems there is a set hierarchy of objects to owners as described by the book, and these owners have complete control over who can access these objects. DAC has two major weaknesses with its approach. Incorrect access can be accidentally given and wrong persons can have complete privilege of a whole network. The second disadvantage is that programs that these subjects use inherit their permissions which is a potentially critical risk when it comes to threat vectors. 

Lastly is MAC which is Mandatory Access Control. This is the most restrictive of the control schemes as it assigns user access controls according to the custodians needs. MAC makes use of Labels and Levels. Labels define what objects are and their relative importance, and levels determine what subjects are then allowed access(example: confidential, secret, top-secret, etc.)

