HIPAA is the Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act which governs how we handle health care information and ensure that it is disclosed to the correct parties. HIPAA came around in 1996 when the flow of data across the internet was becoming a fast and easily accessible thing. The need for correct data handling and protection in the healthcare industry to ensure privacy was mandated. HIPAA contains security rules to safeguard individuals ePHI(electronic Protected Health Information), using Physical safeguards, Technical Safeguards, and Administrative Safeguards. Physical Safeguards can be the locked cabinet along with cameras on premises. Technical Safeguards is the cybersecurity side that protects the CIA of patient information. Finally Administrative Safeguards is the training that people working in the healthcare field receive to ensure they do not leak patient information. HIPAA also mandates that healthcare fields must report breaches of information to the Department of Health and Human Services(HSS) with different requirements based on the severity of the leak.

GDPR is General Data Protection Data Regulation is an EU based law that went into effect on May 25th, 2018 under regulation 2016/678 of the European Parliament and Council. The GDPR is a safeguard against companies collecting and selling information on consumers and these laws are generally accepted internationally due to potential fines that can be placed against companies who act within Europe. With fines of 20 million Euros or 4% of their global revenue, whichever is higher, it is a staunch stance against information collection and sales, although it doesn’t outlaw it entirely. This law aims to decrease the amount of information being stored and sold but also to clarify their uses by the companies. 

Important principles outlined within the GDPR regulation are the “lawfulness, fairness, and transparency” of the data subject with the data subject being the person who’s data is being processed. The “Purpose Limitation” of said data being collected. The “Data Minimization” which aims to reduce the data collection to only what is needed. The “Accuracy” of the data being collected. The “Storage Limitations” to ensure data is not stored forever on people but is worded for as long as is necessary. The “Integrity and confidentiality” of the data, so that information should not be leaked and necessitates the need of encryption at all levels. As well as the “Accountability” of the data being collected and ensuring that the organisation that is subject to these laws are within compliance of them. Any information that is identifiable to an individual is protected under this law, including health information to your IP address.
