PCI DSS is the Pay Card Industry Data Security Standard is a framework established to protect users of all major credit and debit cards payment information. Established in 2004, it was created to give companies guidelines on the secure way to store payment information along with how to process and transmit said information with encryption. This framework is flexible as it can be tailored to companies depending on their transaction volume and offers a robust, layered approach to security through tokenization, strong encryption, and recurrent testing and training. Individuals are often appointed to fixed positions in larger companies and institutions to oversee compliance with this framework.

It is important to understand that PCI DSS is not federal law but is intended to help companies and agencies with more secure use of data, increasing public trust. That being said, some states have enacted similar laws, or in some cases have turned the framework into law such as Washington State. Outside of the legal side of the framework, non compliance can result in a lawsuit from many of the largest cardholders. 

NIST is the National Institute of Standards and Technology and is responsible for many guidelines that define many different industries. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) was originally created in 2013 through Executive Order 13636 for “Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity” and is the industry standard for best practices within cybersecurity with guidelines to improve any organization through continual training and testing. The core functions of NIST’s CSF is to Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.   
