Hashing algorithms are an interesting solution to many problems in the sphere of cryptography. It allows for use to store assigned passwords on servers without storing the plaintext of a password where it can be easily leaked or stolen. These additionally, as mentioned in the Symmetric_vs_Asymmetric.md below this, are how signatures can be sent to other users to authenticate yourself. But before I get ahead of myself, what are Hashing Algorithms? Hashing algorithms take any string of data and put it through a one-way cipher, meaning it cannot be reversed, to create a digest that can be used as verification. All hash digests must be unique otherwise you can end up having hash collisions which allow threat actors unsavory actions. These hash digests will always be a set length no matter if the original string was one or two digits long. “Hello” input to MD5 will always be “8b1a9953c4611296a827abf8c47804d7” no matter the input only being 5 digits. These digests, again, are then used to verify validity of downloads or as signatures when used in conjunction with asymmetric encryption.

There are many different types of hashing algorithms available for encryption but it is important to pick the correct one and keep up to date with their deprecation, as computers become more advanced hash collisions are becoming more prevalent. While these are still far off concerns, commercialized use of quantum computing or even much stronger conventional computers can render these algorithms outdated and vulnerable to collisions. The most common algorithms you will see are MD5, some type of SHA(usually SHA-2 with 256 or 512), and bcrypt.

SHA is Secure Hash Algorithm which contains a family of algorithms, its oldest being deprecated but its newer ones still in use with different levels of encryptions available depending on the end users needs. SHA-3 is currently the newest version of this algorithm and is considered the most secure.

MD5 is Message Digest Algorithm and is one of the most common cryptographic algorithms. It takes whatever the input is and reduces it down to 16 bytes (128 bits) of information and outputs 128 bit digests. Since the output is much shorter than the other options, it is usually used for checksums to verify the data being received while providing a level of security.

Finally bcrypt is a password hashing algorithm that is implemented in JavaScript. When you sign into a website such as Amazon to buy something, during the authentication process of you logging in you will type in your username and password. Amazon will have a secure server somewhere with your username saved with the digest of your password. The password you input during your login will then be put through the same hashing algorithm with the salt, pepper, and key stretching and finally be compared with the hash digest that is saved on the server. If they match you will be given access to the site and allowed to shop with the store payment methods on that account. bcrypt allows for passwords up to 72 bytes(576 bits), salt, and something called a numeric cost which for this will be 16 bytes. It will take these and output a 192-bit hash digest for the password.
