When messages need to be sent securely across the internet, or authentication of what is being sent needs to be had, keys are needed for these interactions. Symmetric keys are when we both have the same key to a lock for example. This is effective because the file is safely encrypted but I do not have the accountability for the other key, or also importantly I do not know that this key was securely sent to the recipient to open the file. Symmetric keys are also difficult when it comes to scalability. The matter of keys being almost handed out makes accountability much more difficult along with the effort needed to send these securely to everyone involved.

This makes Asymmetric key encryption solves many of these problems in a very innovative way. Each user in asymmetric encryption will have their own Public and Private keys. Their Private key is something that only they have access to and should not share it, but their public keys can be sent out almost freely to anyone who they are sending data to. When you have two individuals, Jane and Tom who need to correspond with each other but would like encryption they will exchange their public keys. Public keys are used to encrypt data and the recipient's private key will be used to decrypt it. This means Tom can use Jane's public key to encrypt his emails and only Jane's private key will be able to decrypt it. The inverse is also capable. If Tom was to encrypt a file with his private key and send it to Jane, she would be able to decrypt the file with Tom’s public key. Since there is only one private key and Tom has it, it is essentially the equivalent to a signature since only one person could have sent that. Since private keys can only be decrypted by public keys and vice versa, if a man in the middle attack had occurred, they would not be able to re-encrypt the file and send it on to Tom since they do not have Jane's private key. 

While symmetric encryption is still used for large amounts of data due to its efficiency, asymmetric encryption is considered more secure. They are not mutually exclusive and there are ways to use both effectively in coordination with each other to make information transfers as secure as possible. 
	
