The most common IR plan out there at the moment is the NIST response plan which comprises 4 steps. There is also the SANS framework but for the purpose of this playbook, the NIST will be used.

The first step of the NIST plan is preparation. This step involves developing plans and acquiring tools needed to investigate attack attempts. This involves the training to use said tools and the collection of endpoint data. The preparation face also includes the active gathering of not just end point data, but also threat intelligence for potential exploits.

The second step is Detection and Analysis which involves pinpointing signs of an incident, analyzing indicators of an attack to determine if it is legitimate or a false flag, documentation, prioritization, and notification. This step is important to identify what happened, where it happened, its severity/priority, and how to deal with it.

The third step is Containment, Eradication, & Recovery. This step isolates any breaches or attacks to nullify broad sweeping attack attempts, addressing the cause of failure, and returns the system to its operational state

Finally on step four there is a Post-Incident Activity where a meeting occurs to review all relevant data collected during the attack or incident. This is where your overall security strategy can develop more and is intended to be a way to learn from this attack to prevent future attacks. During these meetings it is important to talk about: what happened, how the IR team handled the issue, were documentation procedures followed and were they adequate, what information was missing during the response that could have been helpful, what slowed recovery if anything did, what could have been done differently, future plans to prevent these types of attacks, what were the indicators for this attack that should be flagged in the future. This is an incredibly important step that requires documentation at all steps so that a well developed plan may be garnered from attacks to protect from future attacks.
